There was a time, hundreds, maybe even a thousand years ago.
No one quite remembers when it happened exactly.
An old king of this valley fell ill, and word spread quickly.
His enemies grew as his health faded. Sentiments of dissent and greed began to fester.
"The king is old and frail, and cannot stop us from claiming his riches and his lands!"

Fires were lit, ore was mined, and steel was forged into axes, shields, and swords.
One lord that owned a large plot of land near the old king's keep promised wealth to all who fought for him.
As a measure of his word, he brought hundreds of slaughtered livestock to the houses of his servants and companions.
Fighting men flocked to his side at the promise of food, land, wealth, and the good graces of this lord.

Other houses in the valley rose up similar armies, but none so great as this.
The lord, Fuortes the Rising, amassed an army of over 20,000 men over the coming months.
In due time, the king passed. His son, Byruk the Steadfast, raised his own army from the coffers of his family earnings.
Fuortes and Byruk personally led their own war campaign in order to claim what was left of the kingdom.

After weeks of battle throughout the valley, Fuortes had pushed the prince-general into the frigid mountains.
The fighting was coming to an end. Both armies were starving, vastly diminished in size, and war-weary.
 A great battle had begun to destroy the prince's army entirely, in the wake of a weeks-long siege.
Byruk had been pierced through the leg with a lance, and had a sizable portion of his army murdered on the cold snow.
Suddenly, a light shone from the clouds. The sun itself had become not its whitish yellow, but a brilliant blue.
A divine had intervened. Supnos, being of Slumber, caused Fuortes' army to fall down with fatigue.

Byruk the Steadfast was granted renewed strength from the blessing of Supnos, while Fuortes grew weary from his curse.
Byruk found the power to tear the lance from his own leg and hurl it through Fuortes' chest.
His death was immediate, while Byruk found his wounds healed and unscarred.
Byruk and his soldiers were endowed with divine enhanced strength, and cut down the usurping lord's army in minutes.
They had the strength of five men each, did not bleed, and felt no fatigue under the soothing blue sun.

As tribute for halting further bloodshed, Supnos cast a great spell on Byruk and his army, causing them to sleep.
This sleep was an indefinite slumber, the sort that only Supnos can create.
Byruk and his army of over 2000 would rest inside the mountain, entombed with their weapons intact and spirits rested.
Supnos claimed them all as his own, ready to be awakened with divine strength at the dawn of the next great battle.

Many men since have tried to awaken the Sleeping Army enshrined within the mountain.
But every attempt has been met with failure. The mountain caverns are too hostile to life.
They are nearly impassable, fraught with beasts and spirits, and chills the very bones.
But one day, the army will awaken, and Byruk will claim the throne of this valley as his own.
He will be wizened through his hundreds of years of dream and contemplation, and the land will know peace.